In the previous video, you saw how
structured prompts can be used to
help an LLM write Python scripts
to solve complex math problems.
An application making use of PAL
can link the LLM to a Python
interpreter to run the code and
return the answer to the LLM.
Most applications will require the LLM to
manage more complex workflows, perhaps
in including interactions with multiple
external data sources and applications.
In this video, you'll explore
a framework called ReAct that can
help LLMs plan out and
execute these workflows.
ReAct is a prompting strategy that
combines chain of thought reasoning
with action planning.
The framework was proposed by researchers
at Princeton and Google in 2022.
The paper develops a series of
complex prompting examples based on
problems from Hot Pot QA,
a multi-step question answering benchmark.
That requires reasoning over two or
more Wikipedia passages and
fever, a benchmark that uses
Wikipedia passages to verify facts.
The figure on the right shows some example
prompts from the paper, and we'll explore
one shortly, so don't worry about reading
the prompts on this slide for now.
You'll be able to look at the figure
in more detail in a reading exercise
after the video.
ReAct uses structured examples to show
a large language model how to reason
through a problem and decide on actions to
take that move it closer to a solution.
The example prompts start with a question
that will require multiple steps to
answer.
In this example, the goal is to determine
which of two magazines was created first.
The example then includes
a related thought action
observation trio of strings.
The thought is a reasoning step that
demonstrates to the model how to
tackle the problem and
identify an action to take.
In the newspaper publishing example,
the prompt specifies that the model
will search for both magazines and
determine which one was published first.
In order for the model to interact with
an external application or data source,
it has to identify an action to
take from a pre-determined list.
In the case of the ReAct framework,
the authors created a small Python API
to interact with Wikipedia.
The three allowed actions are search,
which looks for a Wikipedia entry about
a particular topic lookup, which searches
for a string on a Wikipedia page.
And finish,
which the model carries out when it
decides it has determined the answer.
As you saw on the previous slide,
the thought in the prompt identified
two searches to carry out one for
each magazine.
In this example, the first search
will be for Arthur's magazine.
The action is formatted using the specific
square bracket notation you see here,
so that the model will format
its completions in the same way.
The Python interpreter searches for
this code to trigger specific API actions.
The last part of the prompt
template is the observation,
this is where the new information
provided by the external search is
brought into the context of the prompt.
For the model to interpret the prompt
then repeats the cycle as many
times as is necessary to
obtain the final answer.
In the second thought, the prompt states
the start year of Arthur's magazine and
identifies the next step
needed to solve the problem.
The second action is to search for first
for women, and the second observation
includes text that states the start date
of the publication, in this case 1989.
At this point, all the information
required to answer the question is known.
The third thought states the start
year of first for women and then gives
the explicit logic used to determine
which magazine was published first.
The final action is to finish the cycle
and pass the answer back to the user.
It's important to note that
in the ReAct framework,
the LLM can only choose from a limited
number of actions that are defined by
a set of instructions that is
pre-pended to the example prompt text.
The full text of
the instructions is shown here.
First, the task is defined,
telling the model to answer
a question using the prompt structure
you just explored in detail.
Next, the instructions give more detail
about what is meant by thought and
then specifies that the action step
can only be one of three types.
The first is the search action,
which looks for
Wikipedia entries related
to the specified entity.
The second is the lookup action,
which retrieves the next sentence
that contains the specified keyword.
The last action is finish, which returns
the answer and brings the task to an end.
It is critical to define a set of
allowed actions when using LLMs to plan
tasks that will power applications.
LLMs are very creative, and
they may propose taking steps that don't
actually correspond to something
that the application can do.
The final sentence in the instructions
lets the LLM know that some
examples will come next
in the prompt text.
Okay, so let's put all the pieces
together, for inference.
You'll start with
the ReAct example prompt.
Note that depending on the LLM you're
working with, you may find that you
need to include more than one example and
carry out future inference.
Next, you'll pre-pend the instructions
at the beginning of the example and
then insert the question you
want to answer at the end.
The full prompt now includes all
of these individual pieces, and
it can be passed to the LLM for inference.
The ReAct framework shows
one way to use LLMs
to power an application through
reasoning and action planning.
This strategy can be extended for your
specific use case by creating examples
that work through the decisions and
actions that will take
place in your application.
Thankfully, frameworks for
developing applications powered by
language models are in active development.
One solution that is being widely
adopted is called LangChain,
the LangChain framework provides you
with modular pieces that contain
the components necessary
to work with LLMs.
These components include prompt templates
for many different use cases that
you can use to format both input
examples and model completions.
And memory that you can use to
store interactions with an LLM.
The framework also includes pre-built
tools that enable you to carry out
a wide variety of tasks, including calls
to external datasets and various APIs.
Connecting a selection of these individual
components together results in a chain.
The creators of LangChain have developed
a set of predefined chains that
have been optimized for
different use cases,
and you can use these off the shelf to
quickly get your app up and running.
Sometimes your application workflow
could take multiple paths depending
on the information the user provides.
In this case,
you can't use a pre-determined chain, but
instead we'll need the flexibility
to decide which actions to take as
the user moves through the workflow.
LangChain defines another construct,
known as an agent,
that you can use to interpret
the input from the user and
determine which tool or
tools to use to complete the task.
LangChain currently includes agents for
both PAL and ReAct, among others.
Agents can be incorporated into
chains to take an action or plan and
execute a series of actions.
LangChain is in active development, and
new features are being added all the time,
like the ability to examine and
evaluate the LLM's completions
throughout the workflow.
It's an exciting framework that can
help you with fast prototyping and
deployment, and
is likely to become an important tool in
your generative AI toolbox in the future.
The last thing to keep in mind as you
develop applications using LLMs is that
the ability of the model to reason well
and plan actions depends on its scale.
Larger models are generally
your best choice for
techniques that use advanced prompting,
like PAL or ReAct.
Smaller models may struggle to understand
the tasks in highly structured prompts and
may require you to perform additional
fine tuning to improve their ability
to reason and plan.
This could slow down
your development process.
Instead, if you start with a large,
capable model and
collect lots of user data in deployment,
you may be able to use it to train and
fine tune a smaller model that you
can switch to at a later time.